README.md, before:

# FIDO2 .NET Library (WebAuthn)
A working implementation library + demo for [FIDO2](https://fidoalliance.org/fido2/) and [WebAuthn](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/) using [.NET](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/)
[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/anders/Fido2/_apis/build/status/abergs.fido2-net-lib?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/anders/Fido2/_build/latest?definitionId=10&branchName=master)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/passwordless-lib/fido2-net-lib/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/passwordless-lib/fido2-net-lib)
[![Financial Contributors on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/passwordless/all/badge.svg?label=financial+contributors)](https://opencollective.com/passwordless)
[![NuGet Status](http://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Fido2.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Fido2/) [Releases & Change log](https://github.com/passwordless-lib/fido2-net-lib/releases)

### 💡 Passwordless API now available!

The quickest way to get started with FIDO2 and WebAuthn is with the [Passwordless API](https://passwordless.dev?gh). It free to try and get started with before commiting to implement your own server with this library.

[Blog: How to get started](http://ideasof.andersaberg.com/development/passwordless-api)

### Purpose

<img align="right" width="100px" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/357283/188737052-4735ba0a-08b5-47e8-9b2c-02c8829d2413.png" />
Our purpose is to enable passwordless sign in for all .NET apps (asp, core, native).

To provide a developer friendly and well tested [.NET](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/) [FIDO2 Server](https://fidoalliance.org/specs/fido-v2.0-rd-20180702/fido-server-v2.0-rd-20180702.html) / [WebAuthn relying party](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#relying-party) library for the easy validation of [registration](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#usecase-registration) ([attestation](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#attestation)) and [authentication](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#usecase-authentication) ([assertion](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#authentication-assertion)) of [FIDO2](https://fidoalliance.org/fido2/) / [WebAuthn](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/) credentials, in order to increase the adoption of the technology, ultimately defeating phishing attacks.

This project is part of the [.NET foundation](https://dotnetfoundation.org)


```Install-Package Fido2```

To use the asp.net helpers, install the asp.net-package.

```Install-Package Fido2.AspNet```

### Demo
* **Online examples**: https://www.passwordless.dev
* **Library website**: https://fido2-net-lib.passwordless.dev
* [Code examples](#examples)

## What is FIDO2?
**The passwordless web is coming.**
[FIDO2](https://fidoalliance.org/fido2/) / [WebAuthn](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/) is a new open authentication standard, supported by [browsers](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/Member/List) and [many large tech companies](https://fidoalliance.org/members/) such as Microsoft, Google etc. The main driver is to allow a user to login without passwords, creating *passwordless flows* or strong MFA for user signup/login on websites. The standard is not limited to web applications with support coming to Active Directory and native apps. The technology builds on public/private keys, allowing authentication to happen without sharing a secret between the user & platform. This brings many benefits, such as easier and safer logins and makes phishing attempts extremely hard.

Read more:
- [Why it's exciting](http://ideasof.andersaberg.com/development/the-passwordless-web)
- [Medium](https://medium.com/tokenring/fido-2-0-what-is-it-and-why-are-we-excited-31a66df6e113)
- [FIDO Alliance](https://fidoalliance.org/fido2/)
- [Yubico](https://www.yubico.com/2018/08/10-things-youve-been-wondering-about-fido2-webauthn-and-a-passwordless-world/)
- [WebAuthn.Guide](https://webauthn.guide/) from Duo Security
- [WebAuthn.io](https://webauthn.io/)
- [WebAuthn Awesome](https://github.com/herrjemand/WebauthnAwesome)

## Supported features

- ✅ Attestation API & verification (Register and verify credentials/authenticators)
- ✅ Assertion API & verification (Authenticate users)
- ✅ 100% pass rate in [conformance testing](#conformance-testing-tool) ([results](https://github.com/passwordless-lib/fido2-net-lib/issues/13#issuecomment-457318859))
- ✅ FIDO2 security keys aka roaming authenticators ([spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#roaming-authenticators)), like SoloKeys [Solo](https://github.com/solokeys/solo/blob/master/README.md), Yubico [YubiKey](https://www.yubico.com/products/yubikey-hardware/), and Feitian [BioPass FIDO2](https://www.ftsafe.com/Products/FIDO2))
- ✅ Device embedded authenticators aka platform authenticators ([spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#platform-authenticators)), like [Android Key](https://source.android.com/security/keystore/attestation) and [TPM](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/resource/trusted-platform-module-2-0-a-brief-introduction/))
- ✅ Backwards compatibility with FIDO U2F authenticators ([spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/#conforming-authenticators-u2f))
- ✅ [Windows Hello](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/dev-guide/windows-integration/web-authentication)
- ✅ [Face ID and Touch ID for the Web](https://webkit.org/blog/11312/meet-face-id-and-touch-id-for-the-web/) (aka "Apple Hello")
- ✅ All currently referenced cryptographic algorithms for FIDO2 Server ([spec](https://fidoalliance.org/specs/fido-v2.0-rd-20180702/fido-server-v2.0-rd-20180702.html#other))
- ✅ All current attestation formats: "packed", "tpm", "android-key", "android-safetynet", "fido-u2f", "apple", "apple-appattest", and "none" ([spec](https://www.iana.org/assignments/webauthn/webauthn.xhtml))
- ✅ FIDO2 Server attestation validation via FIDO Metadata Service V3 ([spec](https://fidoalliance.org/specs/mds/fido-metadata-service-v3.0-ps-20210518.html))
- ✅ WebAuthn extensions ([spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#extensions))
- ✅ Examples & demos
- ✅ Intellisense documentation
- 💤 [Formal documentation](https://github.com/passwordless-lib/fido2-net-lib/issues/53)
- 💤 Recommended [usage patterns](https://github.com/passwordless-lib/fido2-net-lib/issues/54)

## Configuration

  *Only some options are mentioned here, see the [Configuration](https://github.com/passwordless-lib/fido2-net-lib/blob/master/Src/Fido2.Models/Fido2Configuration.cs) class for all options*

* `fido2:MDSCacheDirPath` - App Secret / environment variable that sets the cache path for the MDS. Defaults to "current user's temporary folder"/fido2mdscache. *Optional when using the default [MetadataService provider](https://fidoalliance.org/mds/).*

## Examples

See the [demo controller](Demo/Controller.cs) for full examples of both [attestation](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#sctn-attestation) and [assertion](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#verifying-assertion).

See the [test controller](Demo/TestController.cs) for examples of how to pass the [conformance tests](#conformance-testing-tool).

See the [Active Directory Store information](https://github.com/passwordless-lib/fido2-net-lib/issues/68#issuecomment-451758622) and [example credential store](https://github.com/passwordless-lib/fido2-net-lib/blob/ActiveDirectory/fido2-net-lib/ActiveDirectoryStore.cs) for ideas on how to integrate this library with an on-premises Active Directory.

### Create attestation Options

To add FIDO2 credentials to an existing user account, we we perform a attestation process. It starts with returning options to the client.

```csharp
// file: Controller.cs
// 1. Get user from DB by username (in our example, auto create missing users)
var user = DemoStorage.GetOrAddUser(username, () => new User
{
    DisplayName = "Display " + username,
    Name = username,
    Id = Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes(username) // byte representation of userID is required
});

// 2. Get user existing keys by username
List<PublicKeyCredentialDescriptor> existingKeys = DemoStorage.GetCredentialsByUser(user).Select(c => c.Descriptor).ToList();

// 3. Create options
var options = _lib.RequestNewCredential(user, existingKeys, AuthenticatorSelection.Default, AttestationConveyancePreference.Parse(attType));

// 4. Temporarily store options, session/in-memory cache/redis/db
HttpContext.Session.SetString("fido2.attestationOptions", options.ToJson());

// 5. return options to client
return Json(options);
```

### Register credentials

When the client returns a response, we verify and register the credentials.

```csharp
// file: Controller.cs
// 1. get the options we sent the client and remove it from storage
var jsonOptions = HttpContext.Session.GetString("fido2.attestationOptions");
HttpContext.Session.Remove("fido2.attestationOptions");
var options = CredentialCreateOptions.FromJson(jsonOptions);

// 2. Create callback so that lib can verify credential id is unique to this user
IsCredentialIdUniqueToUserAsyncDelegate callback = async (IsCredentialIdUniqueToUserParams args) =>
{
    List<User> users = await DemoStorage.GetUsersByCredentialIdAsync(args.CredentialId);
    if (users.Count > 0) return false;

    return true;
};

// 2. Verify and make the credentials
var success = await _lib.MakeNewCredentialAsync(attestationResponse, options, callback);

// 3. Store the credentials in db
DemoStorage.AddCredentialToUser(options.User, new StoredCredential
{
    Descriptor = new PublicKeyCredentialDescriptor(success.Result.CredentialId),
    PublicKey = success.Result.PublicKey,
    UserHandle = success.Result.User.Id
});

// 4. return "ok" to the client
return Json(success);
```

### Create Assertion options

When a user wants to log a user in, we do an assertion based on the registered credentials.

First we create the assertion options and return to the client.

```csharp
// file: Controller.cs
// 1. Get user from DB
var user = DemoStorage.GetUser(username);
if (user == null) return NotFound("username was not registered");

// 2. Get registered credentials from database
List<PublicKeyCredentialDescriptor> existingCredentials = DemoStorage.GetCredentialsByUser(user).Select(c => c.Descriptor).ToList();

// 3. Create options
var options = _lib.GetAssertionOptions(
    existingCredentials,
    UserVerificationRequirement.Discouraged
);

// 4. Temporarily store options, session/in-memory cache/redis/db
HttpContext.Session.SetString("fido2.assertionOptions", options.ToJson());

// 5. Return options to client
return Json(options);
```

### Verify the assertion response
When the client returns a response, we verify it and accepts the login.

```csharp
// 1. Get the assertion options we sent the client and remove from storage
var jsonOptions = HttpContext.Session.GetString("fido2.assertionOptions");
HttpContext.Session.Remove("fido2.assertionOptions");
var options = AssertionOptions.FromJson(jsonOptions);

// 2. Get registered credential from database
StoredCredential creds = DemoStorage.GetCredentialById(clientResponse.Id);

// 3. Get credential counter from database
var storedCounter = creds.SignatureCounter;

// 4. Create callback to check if userhandle owns the credentialId
IsUserHandleOwnerOfCredentialIdAsync callback = async (args) =>
{
    List<StoredCredential> storedCreds = await DemoStorage.GetCredentialsByUserHandleAsync(args.UserHandle);
    return storedCreds.Exists(c => c.Descriptor.Id.SequenceEqual(args.CredentialId));
};

// 5. Make the assertion
var res = await _lib.MakeAssertionAsync(clientResponse, options, creds.PublicKey, storedCounter, callback);

// 6. Store the updated counter
DemoStorage.UpdateCounter(res.CredentialId, res.Counter);

// 7. return OK to client
return Json(res);
```

## Nuget package

https://www.nuget.org/packages/Fido2/ and https://www.nuget.org/packages/Fido2.Models/

# Contributing

See [Contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md) for information about contributing to the project.

This project has adopted the code of conduct defined by the Contributor Covenant to clarify expected behavior in our community.
For more information see the [.NET Foundation Code of Conduct](https://dotnetfoundation.org/code-of-conduct).

For security and penetration testing, please see our [Vulnerability Disclosure Program](./VDP.md)

## Contributors

### Code Contributors

This project exists thanks to all the people who contribute. [[Contribute](https://github.com/passwordless-lib/fido2-net-lib/tree/master#contributing)].
<a href="https://github.com/passwordless-lib/fido2-net-lib/graphs/contributors"><img src="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/contributors.svg?width=890&button=false" /></a>

### Financial Contributors

Become a financial contributor and help us sustain our community. [[Contribute](https://opencollective.com/passwordless/contribute)]

#### Individuals

<a href="https://opencollective.com/passwordless"><img src="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/individuals.svg?width=890"></a>

#### Organizations

Support this project with your organization. Your logo will show up here with a link to your website. [[Contribute](https://opencollective.com/passwordless/contribute)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/0/website"><img src="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/0/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/1/website"><img src="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/1/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/2/website"><img src="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/2/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/3/website"><img src="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/3/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/4/website"><img src="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/4/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/5/website"><img src="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/5/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/6/website"><img src="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/6/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/7/website"><img src="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/7/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/8/website"><img src="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/8/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/9/website"><img src="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/9/avatar.svg"></a>

### .NET Foundation

This project is supported by the [.NET Foundation](https://dotnetfoundation.org).

Commit message:

Update README.md to add status badge

README.md, after:

# Passkey POC Build and Deployment Status Badge #

[![Build and deploy ASP.Net Core app to Azure Web App - passkeyexample](https://github.com/thomaschenato/fido2-net-lib/actions/workflows/master_passkeyexample.yml/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/thomaschenato/fido2-net-lib/actions/workflows/master_passkeyexample.yml)

---

# FIDO2 .NET Library (WebAuthn)
A working implementation library + demo for [FIDO2](https://fidoalliance.org/fido2/) and [WebAuthn](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/) using [.NET](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/)
[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/anders/Fido2/_apis/build/status/abergs.fido2-net-lib?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/anders/Fido2/_build/latest?definitionId=10&branchName=master)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/passwordless-lib/fido2-net-lib/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/passwordless-lib/fido2-net-lib)
[![Financial Contributors on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/passwordless/all/badge.svg?label=financial+contributors)](https://opencollective.com/passwordless)
[![NuGet Status](http://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Fido2.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Fido2/) [Releases & Change log](https://github.com/passwordless-lib/fido2-net-lib/releases)

### 💡 Passwordless API now available!

The quickest way to get started with FIDO2 and WebAuthn is with the [Passwordless API](https://passwordless.dev?gh). It free to try and get started with before commiting to implement your own server with this library.

[Blog: How to get started](http://ideasof.andersaberg.com/development/passwordless-api)

### Purpose

<img align="right" width="100px" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/357283/188737052-4735ba0a-08b5-47e8-9b2c-02c8829d2413.png" />
Our purpose is to enable passwordless sign in for all .NET apps (asp, core, native).

To provide a developer friendly and well tested [.NET](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/) [FIDO2 Server](https://fidoalliance.org/specs/fido-v2.0-rd-20180702/fido-server-v2.0-rd-20180702.html) / [WebAuthn relying party](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#relying-party) library for the easy validation of [registration](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#usecase-registration) ([attestation](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#attestation)) and [authentication](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#usecase-authentication) ([assertion](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#authentication-assertion)) of [FIDO2](https://fidoalliance.org/fido2/) / [WebAuthn](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/) credentials, in order to increase the adoption of the technology, ultimately defeating phishing attacks.

This project is part of the [.NET foundation](https://dotnetfoundation.org)


```Install-Package Fido2```

To use the asp.net helpers, install the asp.net-package.

```Install-Package Fido2.AspNet```

### Demo
* **Online examples**: https://www.passwordless.dev
* **Library website**: https://fido2-net-lib.passwordless.dev
* [Code examples](#examples)

## What is FIDO2?
**The passwordless web is coming.**
[FIDO2](https://fidoalliance.org/fido2/) / [WebAuthn](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/) is a new open authentication standard, supported by [browsers](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/Member/List) and [many large tech companies](https://fidoalliance.org/members/) such as Microsoft, Google etc. The main driver is to allow a user to login without passwords, creating *passwordless flows* or strong MFA for user signup/login on websites. The standard is not limited to web applications with support coming to Active Directory and native apps. The technology builds on public/private keys, allowing authentication to happen without sharing a secret between the user & platform. This brings many benefits, such as easier and safer logins and makes phishing attempts extremely hard.

Read more:
- [Why it's exciting](http://ideasof.andersaberg.com/development/the-passwordless-web)
- [Medium](https://medium.com/tokenring/fido-2-0-what-is-it-and-why-are-we-excited-31a66df6e113)
- [FIDO Alliance](https://fidoalliance.org/fido2/)
- [Yubico](https://www.yubico.com/2018/08/10-things-youve-been-wondering-about-fido2-webauthn-and-a-passwordless-world/)
- [WebAuthn.Guide](https://webauthn.guide/) from Duo Security
- [WebAuthn.io](https://webauthn.io/)
- [WebAuthn Awesome](https://github.com/herrjemand/WebauthnAwesome)

## Supported features

- ✅ Attestation API & verification (Register and verify credentials/authenticators)
- ✅ Assertion API & verification (Authenticate users)
- ✅ 100% pass rate in [conformance testing](#conformance-testing-tool) ([results](https://github.com/passwordless-lib/fido2-net-lib/issues/13#issuecomment-457318859))
- ✅ FIDO2 security keys aka roaming authenticators ([spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#roaming-authenticators)), like SoloKeys [Solo](https://github.com/solokeys/solo/blob/master/README.md), Yubico [YubiKey](https://www.yubico.com/products/yubikey-hardware/), and Feitian [BioPass FIDO2](https://www.ftsafe.com/Products/FIDO2))
- ✅ Device embedded authenticators aka platform authenticators ([spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#platform-authenticators)), like [Android Key](https://source.android.com/security/keystore/attestation) and [TPM](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/resource/trusted-platform-module-2-0-a-brief-introduction/))
- ✅ Backwards compatibility with FIDO U2F authenticators ([spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/#conforming-authenticators-u2f))
- ✅ [Windows Hello](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/dev-guide/windows-integration/web-authentication)
- ✅ [Face ID and Touch ID for the Web](https://webkit.org/blog/11312/meet-face-id-and-touch-id-for-the-web/) (aka "Apple Hello")
- ✅ All currently referenced cryptographic algorithms for FIDO2 Server ([spec](https://fidoalliance.org/specs/fido-v2.0-rd-20180702/fido-server-v2.0-rd-20180702.html#other))
- ✅ All current attestation formats: "packed", "tpm", "android-key", "android-safetynet", "fido-u2f", "apple", "apple-appattest", and "none" ([spec](https://www.iana.org/assignments/webauthn/webauthn.xhtml))
- ✅ FIDO2 Server attestation validation via FIDO Metadata Service V3 ([spec](https://fidoalliance.org/specs/mds/fido-metadata-service-v3.0-ps-20210518.html))
- ✅ WebAuthn extensions ([spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#extensions))
- ✅ Examples & demos
- ✅ Intellisense documentation
- 💤 [Formal documentation](https://github.com/passwordless-lib/fido2-net-lib/issues/53)
- 💤 Recommended [usage patterns](https://github.com/passwordless-lib/fido2-net-lib/issues/54)

## Configuration

  *Only some options are mentioned here, see the [Configuration](https://github.com/passwordless-lib/fido2-net-lib/blob/master/Src/Fido2.Models/Fido2Configuration.cs) class for all options*

* `fido2:MDSCacheDirPath` - App Secret / environment variable that sets the cache path for the MDS. Defaults to "current user's temporary folder"/fido2mdscache. *Optional when using the default [MetadataService provider](https://fidoalliance.org/mds/).*

## Examples

See the [demo controller](Demo/Controller.cs) for full examples of both [attestation](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#sctn-attestation) and [assertion](https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn/#verifying-assertion).

See the [test controller](Demo/TestController.cs) for examples of how to pass the [conformance tests](#conformance-testing-tool).

See the [Active Directory Store information](https://github.com/passwordless-lib/fido2-net-lib/issues/68#issuecomment-451758622) and [example credential store](https://github.com/passwordless-lib/fido2-net-lib/blob/ActiveDirectory/fido2-net-lib/ActiveDirectoryStore.cs) for ideas on how to integrate this library with an on-premises Active Directory.

### Create attestation Options

To add FIDO2 credentials to an existing user account, we we perform a attestation process. It starts with returning options to the client.

```csharp
// file: Controller.cs
// 1. Get user from DB by username (in our example, auto create missing users)
var user = DemoStorage.GetOrAddUser(username, () => new User
{
    DisplayName = "Display " + username,
    Name = username,
    Id = Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes(username) // byte representation of userID is required
});

// 2. Get user existing keys by username
List<PublicKeyCredentialDescriptor> existingKeys = DemoStorage.GetCredentialsByUser(user).Select(c => c.Descriptor).ToList();

// 3. Create options
var options = _lib.RequestNewCredential(user, existingKeys, AuthenticatorSelection.Default, AttestationConveyancePreference.Parse(attType));

// 4. Temporarily store options, session/in-memory cache/redis/db
HttpContext.Session.SetString("fido2.attestationOptions", options.ToJson());

// 5. return options to client
return Json(options);
```

### Register credentials

When the client returns a response, we verify and register the credentials.

```csharp
// file: Controller.cs
// 1. get the options we sent the client and remove it from storage
var jsonOptions = HttpContext.Session.GetString("fido2.attestationOptions");
HttpContext.Session.Remove("fido2.attestationOptions");
var options = CredentialCreateOptions.FromJson(jsonOptions);

// 2. Create callback so that lib can verify credential id is unique to this user
IsCredentialIdUniqueToUserAsyncDelegate callback = async (IsCredentialIdUniqueToUserParams args) =>
{
    List<User> users = await DemoStorage.GetUsersByCredentialIdAsync(args.CredentialId);
    if (users.Count > 0) return false;

    return true;
};

// 2. Verify and make the credentials
var success = await _lib.MakeNewCredentialAsync(attestationResponse, options, callback);

// 3. Store the credentials in db
DemoStorage.AddCredentialToUser(options.User, new StoredCredential
{
    Descriptor = new PublicKeyCredentialDescriptor(success.Result.CredentialId),
    PublicKey = success.Result.PublicKey,
    UserHandle = success.Result.User.Id
});

// 4. return "ok" to the client
return Json(success);
```

### Create Assertion options

When a user wants to log a user in, we do an assertion based on the registered credentials.

First we create the assertion options and return to the client.

```csharp
// file: Controller.cs
// 1. Get user from DB
var user = DemoStorage.GetUser(username);
if (user == null) return NotFound("username was not registered");

// 2. Get registered credentials from database
List<PublicKeyCredentialDescriptor> existingCredentials = DemoStorage.GetCredentialsByUser(user).Select(c => c.Descriptor).ToList();

// 3. Create options
var options = _lib.GetAssertionOptions(
    existingCredentials,
    UserVerificationRequirement.Discouraged
);

// 4. Temporarily store options, session/in-memory cache/redis/db
HttpContext.Session.SetString("fido2.assertionOptions", options.ToJson());

// 5. Return options to client
return Json(options);
```

### Verify the assertion response
When the client returns a response, we verify it and accepts the login.

```csharp
// 1. Get the assertion options we sent the client and remove from storage
var jsonOptions = HttpContext.Session.GetString("fido2.assertionOptions");
HttpContext.Session.Remove("fido2.assertionOptions");
var options = AssertionOptions.FromJson(jsonOptions);

// 2. Get registered credential from database
StoredCredential creds = DemoStorage.GetCredentialById(clientResponse.Id);

// 3. Get credential counter from database
var storedCounter = creds.SignatureCounter;

// 4. Create callback to check if userhandle owns the credentialId
IsUserHandleOwnerOfCredentialIdAsync callback = async (args) =>
{
    List<StoredCredential> storedCreds = await DemoStorage.GetCredentialsByUserHandleAsync(args.UserHandle);
    return storedCreds.Exists(c => c.Descriptor.Id.SequenceEqual(args.CredentialId));
};

// 5. Make the assertion
var res = await _lib.MakeAssertionAsync(clientResponse, options, creds.PublicKey, storedCounter, callback);

// 6. Store the updated counter
DemoStorage.UpdateCounter(res.CredentialId, res.Counter);

// 7. return OK to client
return Json(res);
```

## Nuget package

https://www.nuget.org/packages/Fido2/ and https://www.nuget.org/packages/Fido2.Models/

# Contributing

See [Contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md) for information about contributing to the project.

This project has adopted the code of conduct defined by the Contributor Covenant to clarify expected behavior in our community.
For more information see the [.NET Foundation Code of Conduct](https://dotnetfoundation.org/code-of-conduct).

For security and penetration testing, please see our [Vulnerability Disclosure Program](./VDP.md)

## Contributors

### Code Contributors

This project exists thanks to all the people who contribute. [[Contribute](https://github.com/passwordless-lib/fido2-net-lib/tree/master#contributing)].
<a href="https://github.com/passwordless-lib/fido2-net-lib/graphs/contributors"><img src="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/contributors.svg?width=890&button=false" /></a>

### Financial Contributors

Become a financial contributor and help us sustain our community. [[Contribute](https://opencollective.com/passwordless/contribute)]

#### Individuals

<a href="https://opencollective.com/passwordless"><img src="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/individuals.svg?width=890"></a>

#### Organizations

Support this project with your organization. Your logo will show up here with a link to your website. [[Contribute](https://opencollective.com/passwordless/contribute)]

<a href="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/0/website"><img src="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/0/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/1/website"><img src="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/1/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/2/website"><img src="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/2/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/3/website"><img src="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/3/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/4/website"><img src="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/4/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/5/website"><img src="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/5/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/6/website"><img src="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/6/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/7/website"><img src="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/7/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/8/website"><img src="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/8/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/9/website"><img src="https://opencollective.com/passwordless/organization/9/avatar.svg"></a>

### .NET Foundation

This project is supported by the [.NET Foundation](https://dotnetfoundation.org).
